  Flesh and Blood
Comprehensive Rules
       2026-6-10
         2.14.0




  Legend Story Studios
1.     Game Concepts

1.0. General
     1.0.1. The rules in this document apply to any game of Flesh and Blood.

          1.0.1a If an effect directly contradicts a rule contained in this document, the effect supersedes that rule.

          1.0.1b If a tournament rule contradicts a rule contained in this document or an effect, the tournament
              rule supersedes that rule or that effect.

     1.0.2. A restriction is a rule or effect that states something cannot happen. A requirement is a rule or effect
          that states that something should happen if possible. An allowance is a rule or effect that states
          something can happen. A restriction takes precedence over any requirement or allowance, and a
          requirement takes precedence over any allowance, subject to [1.0.1a] .

             Example: “They can’t defend this with equipment” is a restriction, “They must defend this with
             equipment they control if able” is a requirement, and “They may defend this with equipment they
             control” is an allowance.


             Example: If one effect reads “You can’t play cards from your banished zone,” and another effect
             reads “You may play cards from your banished zone,” the restriction takes precedence over the
             allowance and the player cannot play cards from their banished zone.

          1.0.2a A restriction that states that “only” something can happen is functionally equivalent to a
              restriction that states everything else cannot happen.

                 Example: Three of a Kind has the text “you may only play cards from arsenal,” which is a
                 restriction equivalent to “you cannot play cards from anywhere other than arsenal.” Even if an
                 effect would allow you to play a card from your banished zone (an allowance), or require you
                 to play your next card from hand (a requirement) you would not be able to play that card
                 because of the restriction effect generated by Three of a Kind.

          1.0.2b A restriction or requirement does not retroactively change the game state.

                 Example: Overpower is an ability with an effect that prevents its source from being defended
                 by more than 1 action card (a restriction). If an attack is already defended by two or more
                 action cards and then it gains overpower, none of the existing defending cards are retroactively
                 removed from defending.


1.1. Players
     1.1.1. A player is a person participating in the game.

          1.1.1a To participate, a person must have a hero, a card-pool, a way to represent any tokens and counters
              that could be created by effects in their card-pool, a way to generate uniform random values for
              effects in their card-pool, a play-space for zones, and a method to record life totals.

     1.1.2. A player’s hero is a hero-card.[1.3.2a]


                                                           1
CHAPTER 1. GAME CONCEPTS


       1.1.2a This document distinguishes the player as the person participating in the game and the hero as
           the hero card of a player.

       1.1.2b A player plays the game as their hero. Card text makes no distinction between the player and
           their hero, identifying both identically. The term “you” refers to the player (and their hero) that is
           the controller of the object[1.2.1b] , or the owner of the object[1.2.1a] if there is no controller. The term
           “opponent” refers to the player’s opponent (and their hero).

              Example: The Golden Son has the text “When you win a clash revealing this, create a Gold
              token.” Because there is no controller of The Golden Son when it is revealed during a clash,
              the effect will only trigger if the owner of the card wins a clash revealing it, as “you” refers to
              the card’s owner.

  1.1.3. A player’s card-pool is a collection of deck-cards[1.3.2c] and arena-cards.[1.3.2d] A card can only be
       included in a player’s card-pool if the card’s supertypes are a subset of their hero’s supertypes.[2.11]

         Example: If the hero card is Boltyn (supertypes of “Light” and “Warrior”), the card-pool can only
         include cards with the supertypes of “Light Warrior,” “Light,” “Warrior,” and cards with no
         supertypes (“Generic”).

       1.1.3a If an effect allows a player to start the game with one or more cards with supertypes that are not
           a subset of their hero’s supertypes, those cards may be included in the player’s card-pool as long
           as they start the game as specified by the effect.[4.1.6c] Card text of meta-static abilities refers to the
           player’s card-pool as the player’s “deck.”

       1.1.3b A hybrid card may be included in a player’s card-pool if either of the hybrid card’s supertype sets
           is a subset of their hero’s supertypes.[2.14.1b]

  1.1.4. In a game, a party comprises players who win the game together.

       1.1.4a A player is always considered to be in a party with themselves, including when they are the only
           player in that party.

              Example: United We Stand has the text “. . . if Boltyn is in your party, create a Courage token
              under his control.” If the player is playing as Boltyn, they would create a Courage token under
              their own control because they are considered to be in their own party, even if there are no
              other players in their party.


  1.1.5. In a game, a player’s opponents include all other players who are not in their party.[1.1.4]

  1.1.6. Clockwise order is the order of players starting from the given player and progressing clockwise
       among the players when viewed from above. The next player in clockwise order is the player to the left
       of the given player.


1.2. Objects
  1.2.1. An object is an element of the game with properties[2] and located in a zone[3] or a player’s
       inventory.[4.1.6] Cards, attacks, macros, and layers are objects.

       1.2.1a The owner of an object is the same as the card, macro, or layer that represents it, otherwise it has
           no owner.


                                                           2
CHAPTER 1. GAME CONCEPTS


       1.2.1b The controller of an object is the same as the card, macro, or layer that represents it. An object
           does not have a controller if it is not in the arena or on the stack.

  1.2.2. An object has one or more object identities that can be referred to. Rules in this document and effects
       typically describe objects using their object identity as the noun.

         Example: Lunging Press has the text “Target attack action card gets +1{p},” which identifies the
         target of the effect, using the “card” object identity as the noun.

       1.2.2a An object has the object identity “object.”

       1.2.2b An object with a name property and/or moniker has the object identity of that name and/or
           moniker.[2.7]

              Example: Vow of Vengeance has the text “. . . Mark target Arakni,” which identifies an object
              using the name “Arakni” as an object identity.

       1.2.2c A card has the object identity of its traits, types, and subtypes, except for the subtype attack.

              Example: Ironsong Determination has the text “Target weapon gets +1{p} and dominate until
              end of turn,” which identifies an object using the type “weapon” as an object identity.

       1.2.2d An attack-card, attack-proxy, or attack-layer has the object identity “attack.”[1.4]

              Example: Oath of the Arknight has the text “Your next Runeblade attack this turn gets +3{p},”
              which identifies either a Runeblade attack action card on the stack, or attack-proxy created by
              a Runeblade source, or an attacking Runeblade object; using “attack” as an object identity.

       1.2.2e A card has the object identity “card.”

       1.2.2f A permanent has the object identity “permanent.”[1.3.3]

       1.2.2g An activated-layer has the object identity “activated ability.”

       1.2.2h A triggered-layer has the object identity “triggered effect.”

  1.2.3. Last known information about an object is a snapshot of the state of an object immediately before it
       ceased to exist.

       1.2.3a If a rule or effect requires information about a specific object that no longer exists, instead it uses
           last known information about that object to fulfil that requirement. Otherwise, if a rule or effect does
           not specifically refer to that object, last known information is not used.

              Example: Midas Touch has the text “Destroy target ally. Its controller creates Gold tokens
              equal to its cost.” If the ally is destroyed by Midas Touch, or the ally ceases to exist before
              Midas Touch resolves, last known information about the targeted ally is used to determine the
              player that controlled the ally and the ally’s cost. In both cases the controller creates gold
              equal to the cost.




                                                        3
CHAPTER 1. GAME CONCEPTS



              Example: Endless Arrow has the text “When this hits, put it into its owner’s hand.” If Endless
              Arrow is put into the player’s hand, the chain link of Endless Arrow then holds the last known
              information about the card. If the card had go again before it was put into hand, the player
              would still gain an action point when the chain link resolves.

       1.2.3b Last known information about an object includes its state, counters, parameters, history, and
           effects applied to that object at the time immediately before it ceased to exist.
              Example: Auric Shards has the text “When this enters the arena, up to 1 target attack with
              fragment gets +1p. If this has a holo counter, instead the attack gets +4p.” If Auric Shards with
              a holo counter ceases to exist before the triggered-layer resolves, it will still met the condition
              for the effect as last known information is used to determine that it had a holo counter on it.

       1.2.3c Last known information about an object is immutable - it cannot be altered. Rules and effects
           that would modify the object that no longer exists do not modify the last known information about
           an object; this may cause effects to fail.
              Example: Luminaris has the text “If there is a yellow card in your pitch zone, your Illusionist
              attacks get go again.” If you controlled an Illusionist attack as a chain link on the combat
              chain, but it was removed, and then you put a yellow card in your pitch zone to meet
              Luminaris’ condition, the chain link does not have go again because the last known
              information about the attack cannot be altered.

       1.2.3d Last known information about an object is not an object itself - it is not a legal target for rules
           and effects.

  1.2.4. Card and macro objects are the source of abilities, effects, non-card layers, and attack-proxies.
         Example: Oasis Respite has the text “Prevent the next 4 damage that would be dealt to target hero
         this turn by a source of your choice.” Only cards or macros can be declared as the source for Oasis
         Respite’s effect. Any damage that would be dealt by the chosen source may be subject to the
         prevention effect.


1.3. Cards
  1.3.1. A card is an object represented by an official Flesh and Blood card.

       1.3.1a The owner of a card is the player who started the game with that card as their hero or as part of
           their card-pool, or the player instructed to create it or otherwise put it into the game.

       1.3.1b A card does not have a controller unless it is in the arena or on the stack. The controller of a card
           is its owner as it enters the arena or the player who played that card.

  1.3.2. There are 4 categories of cards: hero-, token-, deck-, and arena-cards.

       1.3.2a A hero-card is any card with the type hero. A hero-card starts the game as a player’s hero.

       1.3.2b A token-card is any card with the type token. A token-card is not considered part of a player’s
           card-pool.[1.1.3]

       1.3.2c A deck-card is any card with one of the following types: Action, Attack Reaction, Block,
           Defense Reaction, Instant, Mentor, and Resource. A deck-card may start the game in a player’s
           deck.


                                                        4
CHAPTER 1. GAME CONCEPTS


       1.3.2d An arena-card is any non-hero- non-token- non-deck-card. An arena-card cannot start the game
           in a player’s deck.

  1.3.3. A permanent is a card in the arena that remains there indefinitely, or until they are destroyed, banished,
       or otherwise removed by an effect or game rule. Hero-cards, arena-cards, and token-cards are
       permanents while they are in the arena. Deck-cards become permanents when they are put into the arena
       (but not the combat chain) and they have one of the following subtypes: Affliction, Ally, Ash, Aura,
       Construct, Figment, Invocation, Item, and Landmark.[2.10]

       1.3.3a If a permanent leaves the arena, it is no longer considered a permanent.

       1.3.3b A permanent has one of two different states: untapped and tapped. Permanents are untapped
           unless a rule or effect puts them into the arena tapped, or changes their state.[8.5.55][8.5.56]

  1.3.4. A card is distinct from another card if one or more of its faces has a name and/or pitch value the other
       card does not have.
         Example: Sink Below with 1 pitch (and a red color bar) is distinct from Sink Below with 2 pitch
         (and a yellow color bar).


         Example: The split-card Null||Shock is distinct from Vaporize||Shock because one of the names
         (Null) is not present on Vaporize||Shock.


1.4. Attacks
  1.4.1. An attack is an object on the stack or combat chain that represents an act of combat. Attack-cards and
       attack-proxies are attacks. An attack-layer is not an attack, but a layer on the stack that can produce an
       attack on resolution.

       1.4.1a The owner of an attack is the same as the owner of the card or activated ability that represents it.

       1.4.1b The controller of an attack is the same as the controller of the object that represents it.

  1.4.2. An attack-card is a card with the subtype attack that is on the stack or that is attacking on the combat
       chain.

       1.4.2a A card with the subtype attack is only considered an attack if it is on the stack or if it was put
           onto the combat chain as an attack. Otherwise, it is not considered an attack.

  1.4.3. An attack-proxy is a non-card object with the attack ability[8.3.1] that represents the attack of another
       object (attack-source).

         Example: Bone Basher has the text, “Once per Turn Action – {r}{r}: Attack” which is an
         activated ability that creates an attack-proxy. The attack-proxy is a representation of Bone Basher’s
         attack.

       1.4.3a An attack-proxy is a separate object that acts as an extension of its attack-source.[1.4.3b] It can
           only be referenced by effects using the object identity “attack”,[1.2.2] but is considered to inherit the
           properties of its attack-source in addition to any existing properties it has, with the exception of the
           activated and resolution abilities of its attack-source. An attack-proxy is not a copy of its source and
           does not have a copy of its source’s properties.


                                                         5
